https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-30317 (#8659)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: observability/obs_migrate_allowlist_mcoa.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[#migrate-allowlist-mcoa]
= Migrating custom allowlist

[role="_abstract"]

> Migrate your custom allowlist config map for the multicluster observability add-on by using the `allowlist-migration` command-line interface. Convert the `observability-metrics-allowlist` custom resource to `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources. Download the `allowlist-migration` binary for your operating system and input your custom allowlist from the console to receive the equivalent `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrate your custom allowlist config map for the multicluster observability add-on by using the `allowlist-migration` command-line interface. Convert the `observability-metrics-allowlist` custom resource to `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources. Download the `allowlist-migration` binary file for your operating system and input your custom allowlist from the console to receive the equivalent `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources.
```

Reviewer: Can we make this active?
Use the `allowlist-migration` command-line interface to migrate your custom allowlist config map for the multicluster observability add-on.

Reviewer: I would like to know the _benefit_ of migrating custom allow list--not sure we have it in the short description or title right now.

Author: The benefit is having the option/ability to convert the resources custom allowlist.

*Required access:* Cluster administrator

.Prerequsites

> - The hub cluster must have the multicluster observability add-on installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure the `multicluster-observability-addon` is installed on the hub cluster.
```

Reviewer: Let's write this as the resource, which is how we normally see it:

`multicluster-observability-addon`

.Procedure

> . Access the command line tools from the *Fleet Management* perspective in the console by selecting the *Question mark* icon > *Command Line Tools*.

Reviewer: this can be more concise and active.

Click the ___ view in the console (that is a step)
Click the (we don't call it the question mark icon unless hover help calls it that) 

See what hover help calls it, it is usually "Help"

Author: Checked in the [UI elements section](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=elements-ui) and I didn't see much mentioned about saying "Help". I still went with your suggestion though. I did see a suggestion to consider describing the icon.

> . Scroll the page to find the list of available downloads in the *Advanced Cluster Management Observability Migration Tool - latest* section.

Reviewer: active, and conciseness needed here.

> . Download the `allowlist-migration` binary for your operating system and architecture.

Reviewer: it's a binary file

> . Download the `allowlist-migration` binary for your operating system and architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Download the `allowlist-migration` binary file for your operating system and architecture.
```

. To generate your `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
/path/to/migration allowlist.yaml output/dir
----

> 

Reviewer: this command is a path, are we missing something here "to generate" ?

Author: @dbuchanaRH

Reviewer 2: This command is a path to a binary. So in Linux, after downloading the binary you would give the binary permissions to be an executable `chmod +x /path/to/migation` (each OS has a process similar to this to run binaries). Then providing the path to the binary allows for the "to generate" part.

Author: Oh so i'm missing `chmod +x` part

Reviewer: @dbuchanaRH can you recheck this if you have not?

Reviewer: We reduce assumptions in the doc, so if they need to modify and change the file, we should have a step for that. If we have a verb in the step, we would have an execution in the command to create something, for instance, so that is why I asked. If this is correct, I am fine to move forward.

+
[source,bash]
----
oc apply -f <output/dir>/custom-scrapeconfig.yaml -n open-cluster-management-observability
----

. Add the generated `PrometheusRule` resources to your cluster by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc apply -f <output/dir>/custom-prometheusrule.yaml -n open-cluster-management-observability
----

. Add the generated `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources to the `ClusterManagementAddOn` resource. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl patch clustermanagementaddon multicluster-observability-addon --type=json -p='[
{
   "op": "add",
   "path": "/spec/installStrategy/placements/0/configs/-",
   "value": {
      "group": "monitoring.rhobs",
      "resource": "scrapeconfigs",
      "name": "custom-scrapeconfig",
      "namespace": "open-cluster-management-observability"
   }
},
{
   "op": "add",
   "path": "/spec/installStrategy/placements/0/configs/-",
   "value": {
      "group": "monitoring.coreos.com",
      "resource": "prometheusrules",
      "name": "custom-prometheusrule",
      "namespace": "open-cluster-management-observability"
   }
}
]'
----

.Verification

> . Check that the generated `ScrapeConfig` resource exists on your hub cluster. Run the following command:

Reviewer: let's not use check because it can also be something to "check".

Reviewer: Unless we say _Check to see_ bc it can look like _Check that_

Ensure, Validate that the... other options may be better.

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get ScrapeConfig -n open-cluster-management-observability
----

. Check that the generated `PrometheusRule` resource exists on your hub cluster. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get PrometheusRule -n open-cluster-management-observability
----

. Check that the `ScrapeConfig` resource is propogated to the managed cluster. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get ScrapeConfig -n open-cluster-management-agent-addon
----

. Check that the `PrometheusRule` resource is propogated to the managed cluster. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get PrometheusRule -n open-cluster-management-agent-addon
----

> . Verify custom metrics collection by entering a query in Grafana. For example, enter the following query to verify use of the `ScrapeConfig` resource: `up{job="my-app"`.

Reviewer 2: Missing closing bracket here should be `up{job="my-app"}`
Othwerwise I think this is good

Author: Great catch!

> . Verify custom metrics collection by entering a query in Grafana. For example, enter the following query to verify use of the `ScrapeConfig` resource: `up{job="my-app"`.

Author: ```suggestion
. Verify custom metrics collection by entering a query in Grafana. For example, enter the following query to verify use of the `ScrapeConfig` resource: `up{job="my-app"}`.
```

> . Verify custom metrics collection by entering a query in Grafana. For example, enter the following query to verify use of the `ScrapeConfig` resource: `up{job="my-app"}`.

Reviewer: Why are we using `kubectl` --did we ask about that? It's almost always `oc` unless there is a specific reason. Remember we removed all kubectl years ago and changed to oc, but always check just in case.

Author: Good catch, needed that reminder. Thank you!

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[#migrate-allowlist-mcoa]
= Migrating custom allowlist

[role="_abstract"]
Use the `allowlist-migration` command-line interface to convert the `observability-metrics-allowlist` custom resource to `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources. Converting to the `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources allows for a scalable way to manage your custom allowlist configuration.

Download the `allowlist-migration` binary file for your operating system and input your custom allowlist from the console to receive the equivalent `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources.

*Required access:* Cluster administrator

.Prerequsites

- Ensure the `multicluster-observability-addon` is installed on the hub cluster.

.Procedure

> . From the *Fleet Management* perspective in the console, select the *Help* icon > *Command Line Tools*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the *Fleet Management* perspective in the console, then click *Help* > *Command Line Tools*.
```

Reviewer: A menu cascade, as you will see in DITA, doesn't have a word in between. You can also say:

click the Help icon, then click CLTs

See IBM Style Guidance on Click vs Select:

 select - verb **(caution)**
Use select to indicate a mouse action that applies to both mobile and non-mobile devices when a term such as click might create confusion.

 click - verb **(use)**
Use click, not click on, to refer to the action of selecting something on a graphical interface.

https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#word-usage__s

. Find the list of available downloads in the *Advanced Cluster Management Observability Migration Tool - latest* section.

. Download the `allowlist-migration` binary file for your operating system and architecture.

. To generate your `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> /path/to/migration allowlist.yaml output/dir

Author: ```suggestion
chmod +x /path/to/migration allowlist.yaml output/dir
```

> 
> .Procedure
> 
> . From the *Fleet Management* perspective in the console, then click *Help* > *Command Line Tools*.
> 
> . Find the list of available downloads in the *Advanced Cluster Management Observability Migration Tool - latest* section.
> 
> . Download the `allowlist-migration` binary file for your operating system and architecture.
> 
> . To generate your `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources, run the following command:
> 
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> chmod +x /path/to/migration allowlist.yaml output/dir
> ----

Author: ```suggestion

. Change the permissions. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
chmod +x /path/to/migration
----

. To generate your `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusRule` resources, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
/path/to/migration allowlist.yaml output/dir
----
```
